Optimizing Resource Sharing in Blockchain-based
Mobile Edge Computing through Reinforcement
Learning: A DDPG Approach
Shrey Dhiman1*, Amita Chauhan1†, Sakshi Kaushal1†,
Harish Kumar1†
1*University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Panjab University,
Sector 25, Chandigarh, 160014, Chandigarh, India.
*Corresponding author(s). E-mail(s): shreydhiman99@gmail.com;
Contributing authors: amita2692@gmail.com; sakshi@pu.ac.in;
harishk@pu.ac.in;
†These authors contributed equally to this work.
Abstract
Mobile Edge Computing (MEC) is a trailblazing technology that puts cloud com-
puting capabilities closer to the consumer, allowing for quicker and more effective
data processing. However, one of the key challenges in MEC is the efficient alloca-
tion of resources. This paper proposes a resource allocation approach utilizing the
technique of Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG) within a blockchain-
based MEC environment. Blockchain technology, known for its transparency,
immutability, and decentralized nature, is used to store the results of computa-
tional tasks. This ensures that all data related to resource allocation are recorded
and verifiable, promoting fairness and accountability. Users can access the results
of their tasks by paying a specified price, which further enhances the transparency
and fairness of the system. The DDPG technique, a type of reinforcement learn-
ing algorithm, is used to make intelligent decisions about task allocation. DDPG
considers various factors such as network conditions, task requirements, and avail-
able resources to optimally allocate tasks to edge servers. The algorithm learns
continuously from the environment and adapts its policies to maximize perfor-
mance. The integration of blockchain and DDPG in this research aims to create
an efficient and secure system for resource allocation in MEC. The goal is to
demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach through comprehensive simula-
tions and assessments. This significantly improves the efficiency and scalability
of mobile applications and services, leading to better user experiences and paving
1
the way for new applications that were not previously feasible due to resource con-
straints. A comparative analysis with baseline algorithms, including Q-learning,
shows that DDPG outperforms resource allocation efficiency and system perfor-
mance. DDPG’s ability to learn optimal policies improves user experience and
rewards. Blockchain and DDPG offer a promising solution for efficient resource
allocation, enabling computational offloading and transparent access. The exper-
imental analysis emphasizes DDPG’s superiority, enhancing the performance and
scalability of mobile edge computing.
Keywords: MEC, Blockchain, RL, Computation Offloading, DDPG
1 Introduction
The recent technical advancement has enabled the integration of cloud computing
capabilities near next-generation networks, ushering in the notion of Mobile Edge
Computing (MEC). This new computing architecture has resulted in a fundamental
shift in the delivery of mobile services and apps, greatly improving user experiences
and allowing revolutionary applications such as augmented reality, driverless cars,
and the Internet of Things (IoT) [3]. Despite these developments, the MEC resource
allocation problem remains a significant challenge, particularly in terms of optimizing
edge server utilization and job execution efficiency.
In order to address this resource allocation difficulty, blockchain technology has
been adopted. With its decentralized, transparent, and secure structure, blockchain
presents a viable option for resource distribution between edge servers in the mobile
edge computing world. Its distinguishing features, including immutability and con-
sensus processes, assist in the creation of a realistic environment ideal for effective
resource management and computing task offloading in MEC.
The idea of task offloading, or the transfer of computing workloads from mobile
devices to edge servers [2], is critical for improving resource allocation in MEC.
Notably, Reinforcement Learning (RL), particularly the Deep Deterministic Policy
Gradient (DDPG) algorithm, has emerged as a powerful tool for dynamically assign-
ing workloads [21] to edge servers while accounting for computational power, energy
efficiency, and network circumstances.
The focal point of this study is to develop a blockchain-oriented mobile edge
computing system for efficient resource allocation. The DDPG algorithm is used to
implement task offloading in this framework. The major goal is to use blockchain’s
decentralized capabilities to create an efficient and secure solution [19] that optimizes
resource allocation in MEC situations. Furthermore, the combination of blockchain
with DDPG enables intelligent task-offloading decision-making by taking into account
factors such as server load, network latency, and energy usage. The final goal is to
prove the efficacy and benefits of the suggested technique through extensive simula-
tions and assessments, ultimately improving resource utilization and overall system
performance in MEC scenarios.
2
Although previous research has looked into the potential of blockchain technology
in MEC and the advantages of the DDPG algorithm for task offloading, there is still a
lack of comprehensive research into how the combination of these two technologies can
optimize resource allocation in MEC. In particular, it is unknown how the properties
of blockchain and the decision-making skills of DDPG might interact and complement
each other to maximize system performance. The integration of blockchain and rein-
forcement learning techniques holds great promise for addressing the data storage[12]
and resource allocation challenges in mobile edge computing.
This research study presents three significant contributions to the field of Mobile
Edge Computing (MEC) by integrating blockchain technology and applying an
intelligent task-offloading algorithm.
1. The initial contribution is the creation of a blockchain-based MEC platform
designed specifically for resource distribution. Blockchain technology, known for
its decentralized, transparent, and secure architecture, has been used to develop
a reliable and efficient resource management platform in the MEC system. Uti-
lizing the blockchain to make use of its unique qualities, such as immutability
and consensus procedures, to facilitate secure and transparent transactions. This
blockchain-based architecture provides efficient resource distribution among edge
servers, resulting in enhanced MEC utilization and efficiency.
2. The second contribution uses the Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG)
technique for task offloading. The technique of shifting computing work from
mobile devices to edge servers, known as task offloading, is crucial in improving
resource allocation. Based on edge servers’ computational power, energy effi-
ciency, and network circumstances, the DDPG algorithm, has been successful
in dynamically assigning tasks to them. This improves system performance and
boosts overall efficiency.
3. The suggested strategy’s validation through thorough simulations and assess-
ments is the third and final contribution. The suggested blockchain-based MEC
platform’s performance as well as task offloading with the DDPG algorithm are
thoroughly tested and assessed. These evaluations demonstrate the approach’s
practical viability and efficacy by highlighting its potential to enhance resource
usage and overall system performance in MEC settings.
The remainder of the paper is structured as follows. Section 2 provides a literature
review of the methods and techniques present in state-of-the-art. Section 3 presents
a detailed description of the system model. Section 4 presents the task assignment
mechanism and problem formulation. Section 5 provides the solution for the MTAO
problem using the DDPG approach. Results and analysis of the experiments performed
are presented in Section 6. Section 7 concludes the paper.
2 Related Work
Numerous approaches have been developed to enhance blockchain-based resource shar-
ing in mobile edge computing. Edge computing for mobile blockchain applications is a
novel idea introduced by Zehui Xiong et al [26]. The authors suggest using mobile edge
computing (MEC) to help mobile users solve proof-of-work (PoW) problems in order to
3
circumvent blockchain’s resource constraints on devices with limited processing power.
They provide an economic strategy for managing edge computing resources, in which
the service provider seeks to maximize profit through pricing and miners weigh incen-
tives and costs when determining the computing services they need. A Stackelberg
game is used to simulate the interaction between the provider and the miners. The
authors create a working prototype of a mobile edge computing system for blockchain
technology and suggest fee structures for the offered services. According to experimen-
tal findings, higher demand for edge computing services increases the likelihood that a
block will be successfully mined. Overall, the study contributes a unique idea for edge
computing for mobile blockchain, gives a prototype system, discusses an economical
method for resource management, and includes experimental data to validate the idea.
A methodology for cooperative computation offloading and resource allocation for
blockchain-enabled MEC systems is described by Jie Feng et al [5]. On concurrently
optimizing cooperative offloading decisions, power allocation, block size, and block
interval, the authors solve the issue of maximizing the computed rate of the MEC
system and transaction throughput of the blockchain system. The problem is repre-
sented as a Markov Decision Process (MDP), taking into consideration the dynamic
properties of wireless channels and the resources that are accessible. The authors sug-
gest an Asynchronous Advantage Actor-Critic (A3C) technique, which can steadily
train neural networks, to address the MDP problem. The simulation results show
that the proposed method performs well under various parameter settings, with quick
convergence and superior performance over existing algorithms.
An overview of the federated learning and blockchain integration in mobile edge
computing (MEC) networks is provided by Dinh C. Nguyen et al [14]. The authors
highlight the drawbacks of conventional AI methods and suggest FL as a workaround
that would allow for cooperative training of a shared AI model without sacrificing
data privacy. The authors offer the idea of FLchain, which blends FL with blockchain
to produce decentralized, safe, and privacy-enhancing intelligent MEC systems, to
increase security and scalability. The study discusses technical issues with FLchain
architecture and looks at how it might be used in a number of MEC fields, includ-
ing crowdsensing, content caching, and edge data exchange. The authors also point
out important fixes for issues including communication costs, resource distribution,
motivational systems, and security and privacy protection.
A novel effective lightweight RFID-based authentication mechanism for supply
chains in a 5G mobile edge computing environment is proposed by Srinivas Jangirala
et al [7]. The authors contend that their protocol offers a better trade-off between
security and functionality features, communication, and computing costs than existing
protocols and is safe against a variety of assaults.LBRAPS, the suggested protocol, is
intended to be both effective and secure. The initialization phase and the authentica-
tion and key setup phase make up its two distinct sections. The protocol guarantees
forward secrecy, mutual authentication, session key formation, user anonymity, and
untraceability. Additionally, it is resistant to both internal and external assaults, such
as replay attacks, man-in-the-middle attacks, reader impersonation attacks, and tag
impersonation attacks. Using the AVISPA tool, the authors also carried out a formal
security study, which verified that the protocol is secure against current threats. The
4
computational expense of the protocol is looked at as well, and it is shown that this
cost is lower than that of other current systems.
In order to align the incentives of stakeholders in a crowd-intelligence environ-
ment, Jinliang Xu et al. [27] suggest a reward-penalty paradigm. The authors use a
large number of edge servers in the mobile edge computing network to implement
predetermined rules using blockchain smart contracts. The platform, employees, and
task publisher are said to be the three stakeholders in a crowd-intelligence ecosys-
tem. These parties may not trust one another, and their interests may collide. The
authors suggest a reward-penalty paradigm to handle this issue and align the incen-
tives of the parties. On several edge servers of the mobile edge computing network,
which together serve as a trustless hybrid human-machine crowd-intelligence plat-
form, the preset rules are executed using blockchain smart contracts. Additionally,
the authors demonstrate that there is just a single strong Nash equilibrium that
may maximize the objectives of the edge servers engaged and expand the ecosystem.
Experiments and theoretical studies both support the suggested methodology. The
suggested blockchain-enabled trustless crowd-intelligence ecosystem, according to the
authors, can significantly reduce network congestion and expand the ecosystem. In
order to align the interests of stakeholders in a crowd-intelligence ecosystem, this study
proposes a reward-penalty model.
In scenarios involving Mobile Edge Computing (MEC), Shuyun Luo et al. [13] sug-
gest a novel architecture for dynamically offloading user workloads. The design makes
use of drones to store IoT device data dynamically and send it to MEC servers that are
a member of a private blockchain network. With this method, possible limitations in
existing systems are solved, including reduced power consumption at endpoint devices,
a decreased need to transport data that is security-sensitive to a cloud platform, and
a reduced necessity for network bandwidth between the Internet of Things device and
the cloud platform. The report also presents a blockchain network to enable MEC ser-
vice providers to become more visible and gain consumers’ confidence. The suggested
system provides a number of benefits, including affordability, accessibility, reliability,
and visibility. In this research, a novel decentralized offloading design for the Drone-
aided MEC (DMEC) system is presented. Additionally, a new smart contract that is
compatible with the DMEC system’s offloading rules is introduced, and simulation
results are shown to show that the suggested design is feasible in real-world DMEC
scenarios.
A thorough analysis of consensus methods and scaling strategies in blockchain
systems for mobile edge computing (MEC) is provided by J. P. Queralta and Tomi
Westerlund [18]. The authors explore both old and new blockchain platforms as they
assess various options and discuss their potential for controlling MEC services. Due to
its established smart contract structure, they highlighted Ethereum as being widely
used in the Internet of Things while also pointing out the promise of Hyperledger
and IOTA. The chapter investigates the use of blockchain in the establishment of
marketplaces, identity management, security, and resource orchestration for MEC.
Additionally, the applications of particular frameworks like EdgeChain are covered.
The authors highlight the applicability of Ethereum, Hyperledger, and IOTA for a
5
variety of use cases as they analyze the advantages and disadvantages of consensus
protocols and distributed ledger technology solutions in their conclusion.
The ideal way to allocate computational resources in a Mobile Edge Computing
(MEC) environment powered by blockchain is investigated by Yuan Wu et al. [25]. The
authors put up a hypothetical situation in which mobile terminals (MTs) purchase
processing power from edge servers in order to mine blockchains, with the goal of
increasing net rewards while preserving fairness among the MTs. For each MT to find
its own ideal computational resources, the authors frame an optimization problem and
provide effective distributed algorithms. The algorithms’ ability to handle scenarios
involving single and several edge servers is proven by a large body of numerical data.
The results show that the suggested algorithms perform better than equal-allocation
strategies, principally because the computational resources at the various edge servers
were allocated appropriately.
In multi-server edge computing, Dinh C. Nguyen et al. [16] describe a unique
method for latency minimization for blockchain-based federated learning (BFL). To
manage both machine learning (ML) model training and block mining simultaneously,
the authors suggest a system in which distributed mobile devices (MDs) communi-
cate with a group of edge servers (ESs). They create an offloading technique that
allows MDs to send data to an associated ES. Based on a consensus process to cre-
ate a global ML model via peer-to-peer (P2P)-based blockchain communications, a
new decentralized ML model aggregation approach at the edge layer is suggested. The
quick eradication of manipulated models brought on by poisoning assaults is made
possible by the usage of blockchain to foster trust between MDs and ESs and to enable
trustworthy ML model sharing and cooperative consensus creation. The data offload
decisions, MDs’ transmit power, channel bandwidth allocation for MDs’ data offload-
ing, MDs’ computational distribution, and hash power allocation are all jointly taken
into account by the authors’ latency-aware BFL optimization, which aims to reduce
system latency. They provide a brand-new deep reinforcement learning method that
uses a benefit actor-critic algorithm that is parameterized. The convergence character-
istics of BFL in terms of aggregation latency, mini-batch size, and the amount of P2P
communication rounds are also theoretically analyzed by the authors. The numerical
analysis shows that the proposed method is better than the baseline models.
Especially when it comes to the Metaverse, Yitong Wang and Jun Zhao [22] exam-
ine the computational paradigms that are employed to satisfy the demanding needs
of contemporary applications. The authors stress the impact of caching and Software-
Defined Networking (SDN) in lowering latency and enhancing Quality of Service (QoS)
in their discussion of the significance of mobility control in Mobile Edge Computing
(MEC) systems. The article also explores MEC’s uses in the Metaverse, a newly devel-
oping online environment where users may carry out daily tasks and create fictitious
social networks. The necessity for MEC in the Metaverse is discussed by the authors,
who draw attention to the shortcomings of traditional computing paradigms in man-
aging complex computing jobs and data connection delays. They contend that MEC
can optimize the user experience in the Metaverse by balancing the trade-off between
processing delay, transmission delay, and power use. The authors also talk about how
6
new technologies, such as blockchain, AI, and 6G wireless communications, are con-
verging with MEC. They see a scenario where MEC is employed for the Metaverse via
6G wireless connectivity, offering a realistic and immersive performance. The promise
of MEC, together with AI and blockchain, is highlighted in the paper’s conclusion as
a means of creating the Metaverse through 6G communications.
A unique method for exchanging and monitoring safe, immutable spectrum data
is presented by Yang Jian et al. [8]. The authors suggest a spectrum blockchain for
the Internet of Spectrum devices (IoSD) that is mobile edge computing (MEC) capa-
ble. The system’s three-stage consensus process ensures safe and immutable data
sharing while handling secure and unchangeable spectrum information tracking and
sharing. The consensus process is meant to protect against dishonest actions like fal-
sifying spectrum data. The suggested method makes use of edge-deployed personal
wireless devices for effective storing of large amounts of spectrum data and rapid reac-
tion to modification of the spectrum strategy. The proposed MEC-enabled spectrum
blockchain’s security performance is evaluated by the authors, who demonstrate that
the consensus process identifies harmful actions with a high chance of detection in a
variety of circumstances. The merits of the MEC-enabled spectrum blockchain, such
as the security and immutability it offers, as well as the effective storage and rapid
reaction it enables, are highlighted in the paper’s conclusion.
In a system design for mobile edge computing (MEC), Xinzhe Zheng et al. [29] look
at the resource allocation issue. The Proof of Learning (PoL) consensus process that
the authors suggest avoids wasting the computational power of edge computing servers.
The system is statistically modeled, with an emphasis on delay in the server and mining
processes, rewards within the new consensus, and overall cost. To make the resource
allocation strategy as efficient as possible, the Asynchronous Advantage Actor-Critic
(A3C) method is employed. The Temporal Convolutional Network (TCN) is used for
representing the policy function and state-value function in the reinforcement learning
model in order to more accurately capture the long-term trend of the system. The
outcomes demonstrate that the TCN-based A3C algorithm converges more quickly
and is more stable.
For a Mobile Edge Computing (MEC) system, Dinh C. Nguyen et al. [15] present
a unique collaborative task offloading and blockchain mining (TOBM) approach and
use a distributed deep reinforcement learning approach. Offloading utility and min-
ing utility are both taken into account when the writers develop the system utility.
Through the optimization of offloading rules, mining strategies, and CPU resource
allocation, they seek to maximize the overall system’s usefulness. The authors suggest
a collaborative multi-agent deep deterministic policy gradient (MA-DDPG) system
to do this, in which each edge device (ED) functions as an intelligent agent that
learns its ideal policy through observation of the local environment created by the
collaboration of EDs and the MEC server. The authors use a centralized method of
learning and decentralized execution technique to lessen computing complexity and
deal with nonstationary difficulties. As a result, channel congestion is decreased, and
compute resource efficiency is increased. This enables EDs to jointly develop cooper-
ative offloading rules. Numerical simulations are run to gauge how well the suggested
TOBM method works. The outcomes show that the scheme works better than the
7
benchmark schemes, producing larger average system rewards. The suggested method
encourages EDs to learn from one another, which improves system performance in
terms of decreased interference, traffic, and resource efficiency.
In order to maximize the scalability of blockchain systems supported by Mobile
Edge Computing (MEC) in Internet of Things (IoT) networks, Zhuoer Hu et al. [6]
suggest a revolutionary technique. The authors provide a method for offloading com-
putations and allocating resources that improve scalability while maintaining data
security and system effectiveness. The authors describe the optimization issue as a
Markov decision process (MDP) and use a deep deterministic policy gradient (DDPG)
technique to solve it in order to meet the dynamic and complicated character of IoT
networks. The complexity and dynamics of the system are successfully handled by
this method. The authors use simulations to show that, in terms of long-term trans-
actional throughput, their system beats deep Q network (DQN)-based schemes and
other greedy techniques. The suggested system’s transaction processing is also cov-
ered in the article, and two approaches—an online model and an offline model—are
presented. While the offline strategy uses a lightning network with smart contracts
outside of the blockchain system, the online model includes publishing transactions to
a global ledger on the blockchain platform.
3 Proposed System Model
3.1 System Architecture
The distributed edge resource-sharing platform, aims to support high-end mobile
applications. The system is made up of MEC servers, a consortium blockchain
that employs practical Byzantine fault tolerance (PBFT) [28] consensus, and mobile
devices as users. In this context, the users as devices that send offloading requests
to MEC servers. To uniquely identify each offloading task based on its arrival time
a unique task identifier is given on the blockchain network. Precisely, define the set
k = {k1, ..., ki, ..., km} to illustrate the offloading of user tasks, where m is the total
number of task that needs to be offloaded. Additionally, the set c = {c1, ..., ci, ..., cn},
indicates the group of MEC servers that are currently active in the system, where n
stands for the entire set of servers. This platform aims to facilitate efficient resource
sharing and utilization for mobile applications by leveraging blockchain technology
and edge computing resources. The blockchain ensures transparency, immutability,
and trust among the participating entities, while the MEC servers provide the nec-
essary computing power and low-latency processing required for mobile applications.
The following is an outline of the suggested system’s workflow:
• Upload of Data: Users of high-end mobile applications submit their unprocessed
information task definitions to the most immediate MEC servers. The task
description of task ki is denoted as Ni < bi, Mi, ψu,i >, where bi represents the
price associated with a single CPU cycle for completing task ki, Mi describes the
volume of data for ki, and ψu,i signifies the time duration required to finish ki.
• Task Allocation: When a server cj acquires the data Ni from end users, it saves
the info locally and then submits Ni for task distribution to the blockchain.
8
• Offloading and Computing: based on the outcome of the task allocation, server
cj either dispatches the received task data to appropriate servers or performs the
computing tasks locally. After starting the assigned tasks, the servers broadcast
the computational output to the blockchain network.
• Payment of Tasks: Users use the blockchain network to pay for computational
costs, from where the user can subsequently acquire the calculated results. Every
single server attains its payout as a result of the blockchain network’s cooperation.
Asymmetric algorithms for encryption like the ”Rivest-Shamir-Adleman (RSA)”
encryption technique [10] may be employed in this setup to secure the privacy of
computing results. Users provide public keys created by RSA along with their offload-
ing task requirements at the start of each round, while keeping their private keys
confidential. After the MEC servers complete the tasks, The computed results are
encrypted using the public keys of the associated users. Thereafter, users can access
the blockchain, download the encrypted output, then use their private keys to decode
them. Given that each server may get a different quantity of jobs, the tasks submitted
by server cj are described as kc,j = {k1, k2, ..., km′}, where m′ ≤m depicts the num-
ber of assignments from cj. For instance, if server c1 submits tasks k1, k3, and k20,
therefore kc,1 = {k1, k3, k20}.
3.2 Blockchain Architecture
The consortium blockchain is housed on the MEC servers and is managed by them,
and all of the servers are trusted, authorized nodes. Moreover, as previously cited, the
PBFT consensus mechanism can be used for realistic Byzantine fault tolerance.[20],
which is a lightweight consensus mechanism in the blockchain. The servers are assisted
by this protocol in establishing consensus for producing blocks, which in turn facilitates
the dissemination of task descriptions and allocation results. Additionally, the PBFT
consensus protocol ensures the fair distribution of payments in an iteration-based
manner. As a result, the MEC servers running the consortium blockchain create a
trustworthy environment for the advanced mobile application system. The workflow
of the distributed network using blockchain can be described as follows:
• Each server announces its obtainable resources for finishing tasks at the begin-
ning of each round, encompassing resources for communication and computation.
Simultaneously, the received task descriptions Ni are uploaded to the blockchain
ecosystem.
• All the aforementioned details is broadcasted within the blockchain, enabling the
head node to use the task allocation method to distribute the incoming tasks to
relevant servers explained in the following section. A new block is created that
contains the task descriptions, allocation choices, and MEC server resource data.
• In the event that server cj is given the tasks it self-submitted, it can immediately
initiate the task processing. However, if cj is tasked with offloading tasks, the
received data must be sent to other servers that can handle the offloading tasks.
• Upon completion of the tasks, the outcomes are announced and documented on
the blockchain.
• Users may use the blockchain to obtain the results, and the servers are paid in
accordance with their contributions to the blockchain.
9
To sum up, the decentralized, reliable platform for resource sharing is provided by the
blockchain in MEC-enabled high-end mobile applications[23]. This platform enables
users of high-end mobile applications to offload computing tasks, addressing challenges
related to limited computing capability on respective servers and device portabil-
ity. The suggested resource-sharing platform can effectively manage several offloading
duties in a distributed way by merging MEC and blockchain technology. However, a
crucial aspect of this process is the technique of a task allocation mechanism. The
mechanism is responsible for assigning offloading tasks to suitable MEC servers, ensur-
ing maximum resource utilization while satisfying user demand. In the next section,
comprehensive details of the job allocation method will be provided.
4 Task Assignment Mechanism and Problem
Formulation
4.1 Communication Model
If server cj submits task ki but it is not ultimately assigned to cj, then server’s
responsibility would be limited to transmitting the data of ki to the designated server.
Here Lj denotes the allotted bandwidth for cj data transmission, and let Oj and
Yj represent the transmission and channel power gain, respectively. According to the
Shannon Bound theory, the data transfer rate may be determined as:
nj = Lj log2

1 + OjYj
σ2

(1)
where 0 ≤σ ≤1 represents the transmission’s Gaussian noise. Consequently, the
calculation for the transmission time is:
Kcomm
j,i
= Mj
nj
(2)
Additionally, it is possible to calculate the energy required for data transmission as:
U comm
j,i
= OjKcomm
j,i
(3)
It is important to note that Lj, Oj, and Yj have been added to the blockchain network
as cj’s communication resources that are available.
4.2 Computation Model
Task Ki is assigned to server cj, and the energy cost [24] can be determined by the
formula:
U comp
j,i
= αjϕj,iq2
j
(4)
Here, αj reflects the CPU architecture-related parameter,
ϕj,i = Mjσj
(5)
10
ϕj,i shows how many CPU cycles were used in total to perform the tasks ki operating
on the MEC server cj, with σj reflecting the number of CPU cycles needed to analyze
one unit of data. In addition, qj stands for the CPU frequency used to calculate
the offloading jobs. Moreover, the duration required for computing task ki on cj is
calculated as:
Kcomp
j,i
= ϕj,i
qj
(6)
The highest amount of computer power of cj is denoted as ϕj. The parameters αj, σj,
qi, and phijare entered into the blockchain as the cj available computing resources for
task distribution.
4.3 Performance Model
Once task ki is completed, server cj will receive payment from users, represented
as bjϕj,i, where bj is the cost per CPU cycle, and ϕj,i is the total number of CPU
cycles spent for the task ki. The performance of server cj in the system, regarding
the completion of ki, is based on the difference between the amount received and the
local cost. As the task allocation for server cj can result in two possibilities, either
computing ki locally or not, the utility of cj is affected significantly. To capture this,
an indicator is introduced i.e., Ij,i: if ki is assigned to cj, then Ij,i = 1; otherwise,
Ij,i = 0. When ki belongs to the set ϑc,j, the utility is best described as:
T H
j,i = (biϕj,i −U comp
j,i
)Ij,i + (µbiϕj,i −U comm
j,i
)(1 −Ij,i)
(7)
Here, µbiϕj,i represents the intermediate cost paid by the server that completes ki,
where µ is a universally recognized, preset constant parameter. The sum of the time
spent is computed as
KH
j,i = Kcomp
j,i
Ij,i + Kcomm
j,i
(1 −Ij,i)
(8)
On the other hand, if ki does not belongs to the set ϑc,j, the utility is calculated as:
T G
i,j =

(1 −µ)biϕj,i −U comp
j,i

Ij,i
(9)
and the total time consumption is:
KG
j,i = (Kcomp
j,i
+ Kcomm
j∗,i
)Ij,i
(10)
where Kcomm
j∗,i
represents the transmission time of the server that submits ki. In light
of this, the performance utility function and time usage may be summed up as follows:
if ki ∈ϑc,j, then Tj,i = T H
j,i, and Kj,i = KH
j,i; otherwise, Tj,i = T G
j,i, and Kj,i = KG
j,i.
4.4 Problem Statement
Taking into account the goal of task distribution to achieve resource integration and
best use in the system, the primary goal is to ensure the timely processing of a
higher number of tasks, leading to increased rewards for the servers. This objective
11
can be formulated as a multi-task assignment optimization (MTAO) problem. The
MTAO problem aims to allocate tasks efficiently by optimizing resource allocation
and scheduling strategies to maximize task completion within given time constraints.
By addressing this problem, the overall performance and efficiency of the system can
be enhanced while promoting greater rewards for the participating servers.
MTAO: argIj,i max Pn
j=1
Pm
i=1 Tj,i
such that,
A1:
m
X
i=1
ϕj,iIj,i ≤ϕj,
A2: Kj,i ≤ϑu,i,
A3:
m
X
i=1
Ij,i ≤1,
A4: j ∈{1, 2, ..., n},
i ∈{1, 2, ..., m}, where 0 < m ≤n.
The objective for optimization is to maximize the overall utility of the servers in
response to the requested tasks from high-end mobile application users. There are
several constraints to consider. Firstly, the constraint on computational power (A1)
ensures that each server can properly process the chosen tasks. Secondly, constraint
(A2) encompasses both the processing and transmission time, ensuring that each
task can be finished within the allocated time frame[4]. Additionally, constraint (A3)
ensures that there is only one server assigned to each task, allowing for the possibil-
ity that some servers may not receive any tasks. Lastly, constraint (A4) defines the
domain of the optimization problem. By addressing these constraints, the allocation
of tasks can be optimized to maximize the overall utility of the servers in the context
of high-end mobile applications.
5 DDPG Based Solution For MTAO
5.1 Problem Restructution
To initiate the process, reframe the Multi-Task Allocation Optimization (MTAO)
problem based on the Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG) algorithm. State
space, action space, and reward function are the three essential components of the
DDPG algorithm, and they are elaborated in more detail.
• State Space: The state space, denoted as λ < ϑ, B, M , ϑe >, represents the
environment in which the agent operates. Here, ϑ refers to the set of tasks
i.e., ϑ = {k1, k2, ..., km}, B represents the group of task-related unit costs i.e.,
B = {b1, b2, ..., bm}, D denotes the collection of task data sizes i.e., M
=
{M1, M2, ..., Mm}, and ϑe denotes the set of execution time requirements for the
tasks i.e., ϑe = {ve,1, ve,2, ..., ve,m}. Consequently, the state space encompasses
12
task descriptions, encompassing costs, data volumes, and execution time con-
straints. Therefore, λ may be shown as a matrix with 4 columns and m rows,
where m indicates the number of tasks. The agent chooses actions based on the
demands of the current task and the servers’ resources.
• Action Space: The action space, denoted as ˚A < C, Z, Q, L, O, Y, α, σ >, repre-
sents the available actions that can be taken by the agent. It incorporates servers’
resource capacities such as total available CPU cycles (Z) i.e., Z = {ϕ1, ϕ2, ..., ϕn},
CPU frequencies (Q) i.e., Q = {q1, q2, ..., qn}, communication bandwidth (L) i.e.,
L = {L1, L2, ..., Ln}, transmission power (O) i.e., O = {O1, O2, ..., On}, channel
power gain (Y) i.e., Y = {Y1, Y2, ..., Yn}, CPU architecture parameter (α), and
The number of CPU cycles needed to process one data sample (σ). An nx8 matrix
makes up the action space, where n represents the number of servers. Each action
can be selected or not selected, ensuring that each task is assigned to only one
server.
• Reward Function: The MTAO problem’s goal is to maximize utility by properly
assigning the task to servers. The performance connected to the allocation choice,
resource circumstances, and time limits defines the rewards here. The reward
function is defined in terms of the performance achieved by allocating a task
to a specific server. The rewards depend on whether the server has sufficient
computing power and can complete the task within the specified time constraint.
The reward function is formulated as follows:
For ki ∈Kci, the reward function is:
Tj,i =
biϕj,i −U comp
j,i
, if ϕj,i ≤ϕj and Kj,i ≤ϑe,i
µbiϕj,i −U comm
j,i
, otherwise
(11)
For ki /∈Kci, the reward function is:
Tj,i =



(1 −µ)biϕj,i −U comp
j,i
, if ϕj,i ≤ϕj and
Kj,i ≤ϑe,i
0,
otherwise
(12)
Here, Tj,i denotes the utility associated with server ci processing task ki, bi shows
the cost per CPU cycle in units, ϕj,i indicates the total number of CPU cycles
needed to finish the task ki on server cj, U comp
j,i
signifies the energy consumption
for computation, U comm
j,i
represents the energy consumption for data transmission,
µ represents a predefined constant parameter, and Kj,i and ϑe,i denote the time
consumption for task processing and the required time constraint for task ki,
respectively.
The average reward can be determined by using Bellman’s Equation[17]:
Sϕ(λj, ˚Aj) = max

T(λj, ˚Aj) + Sϕ(λj+1, ϕ(λj+1))

(13)
Based on the aforementioned analysis, the reward functions are derived by
transforming the objective function while adhering to specific constraints. To
13
simplify the procedure, Algorithm 1 summarizes the calculation of reward func-
tions. In order to obtain an n x m matrix T, which contains the reward value
for each state and action {T1,1, T1,2, ..., Tj,i, ..., Tn,m}, it is necessary to compute
the energy consumption and time cost associated with both the computing and
communication processes.
Algorithm 1 Algorithm for State Action Reward
Input: λ, ˚A
Output: T
1: for j ∈{1, . . . , n} do
2:
for i ∈{1, . . . , m} do
3:
U j,i
comp ←αiϕj,iq2
j
4:
Kj,i
comp ←ϕj,i
qj
5:
Kj,i
comm ←Mi
nj
6:
if ci ∈Kcj then
7:
Kj,i ←Kj,i
compIj,i + Kj,i
comm(1 −Ij,i)
8:
if (ϕj,i ≤ϕj) and (Kj,i ≤ϑe,i) then
9:
Tj,i ←biϕj,i −U comp
j,i
10:
else
11:
Tj,i ←λbiϕj,i −U comm
j,i
12:
end if
13:
end if
14:
if ci /∈Kcj then
15:
Kj,i ←(Kcomp
j,i
+ T comm
j,∗i
)Ij,i
16:
if (ϕj,i ≤ϕj) and (Kj,i ≤ϑe,i) then
17:
Tj,i ←(1 −µ)biϕj,i −U comp
j,i
18:
else
19:
Tj,i ←0
20:
end if
21:
end if
22:
end for
23: end for
24: return T
6 Task and Maximum Reward Allocation
It is crucial to identify the set of activities achievable in each state before making a
selection to avoid choosing servers that cannot perform particular jobs or actions and
to increase learning efficiency by minimizing time complexity.
DDPG, combines the benefits of deep neural networks and deterministic policy
gradients, making it more suitable for continuous action spaces. By employing an
actor-critic architecture and utilizing a continuous action policy, DDPG can effectively
14
learn in complex environments with continuous actions. It handles the challenge of
high-dimensional action spaces by leveraging function approximation, allowing it to
generalize and make better decisions.
The agent uses the greedy algorithm as its policy and selects actions based on Q-
values. The greedy strategy frequently favors choosing options with bigger expected
rewards. Exploration and exploitation are balanced by the parameter ϵ. By adjusting
the value of ϵ, the agent can exploit learned information with a higher value and explore
unexplored actions with a lower value. The learning process involves multiple episodes
to enhance the agent’s understanding of rewards and identify the most profitable
solution.
The agent travels through all states to find a solution in each learning episode,
denoted by k ∈{1, 2, ..., K}, where K is the total number of episodes. It compares
the total rewards obtained from different solutions and selects the solution, denoted
as TS∗, with the greatest possible reward being the ideal outcome.
By appropriately tuning the learning rate α and discount rate γ, practitioners can
control the agent’s learning speed, stability, and ability to consider future rewards. It
is important to select these hyperparameters carefully, taking into account the specific
characteristics of the task and the desired learning behavior, to achieve effective and
efficient learning in DDPG-based algorithms while avoiding issues such as convergence
problems or suboptimal policies Algorithm 2 explains the maximum reward allocation
for the Reinforcement Learning approach (DDPG)[1].
DDPG incorporates experience replay and target networks to stabilize the learning
process and reduce the correlation between consecutive samples, leading to improved
convergence and performance. This makes DDPG a better choice when dealing with
continuous action spaces, as it can handle complex tasks more efficiently and achieve
higher-quality policies compared to Q-learning[9].
15
Algorithm 2 DDPG based Algorithm for Task Allocation with Maximum Reward
Input: λ, ˚A, K, T, σ, S, α, γ, b, m, s, ϕ, q
Output: Best task allocation list A∗with highest sum of rewards S∗
1: Initialize DDPG actor and critic networks with random weights
2: Initialize target actor and critic networks with the same weights as the original
networks
3: Set hyperparameters: learning rate α , discount factor γ, exploration noise φ, batch
size x .
4: Initialize replay buffer to store experiences
5: Initialize the total number of episodes and time steps
6: Initialize the highest sum of rewards S as a very small value
7: while episode e < K do
8:
Reset the environment and observe the initial state λ
9:
Initialize the total reward for the episode
10:
Initialize an empty task allocation list ˚A
11:
while t < T do
12:
Select an action ˚At using the actor network and add exploration noise
13:
Execute the action and observe the next state λ′, reward R, and done flag
14:
Store the experience (λ, ˚Aj, R, λ′, done) in the replay buffer
15:
Sample a random batch of experiences from the replay buffer
16:
Compute the target Q-values using the target critic network
17:
Update the critic network by minimizing the mean squared Bellman error S
18:
Compute the gradients of the actor network using the sampled states and
actions
19:
Update the actor network using the computed gradients
20:
Update the target networks by softly updating the target weights
21:
Update the current state λ and total reward
22:
Increment the time step t
23:
end while
24:
if total reward > S then
25:
S = total reward
26:
Store the current task allocation list A as the best allocation A∗
27:
end if
28:
Increment the episode counter
29: end while
30: return Best task allocation list A∗with highest sum of rewards S∗
7 Results and Analysis
7.1 Experimental Parameters
Our experimental analysis considers a blockchain-based Mobile Edge Computing
(MEC) system in high-end mobile applications. The method comprises 20 servers and
involves 50 offloading tasks, serving as the primary setup for our study. The impact
16
of the number of servers and tasks on the overall rewards and time complexity of the
MEC system by varying the relevant parameters is studied. Additionally, the influence
of DDPG-based algorithm parameters on convergence behavior[11] is investigated. Our
objective is to gain insights into the performance and behavior of the blockchain-based
MEC system in the context of high-end mobile applications. The aim is to under-
stand how different factors impact the system’s efficiency and effectiveness, ultimately
contributing to the advancement of mobile computing technologies.
Table 1: Experimental Parameters
m = 20
n = 50
Mj = 200, 500
σ = 0.01
bj = 1, 10
Mi = 10, 20
ϑe,j = 1, 100
γ = 0.5
qj = 1, 10
Oj = 10, 20
Yj = 10, 20
α = 0.01
Lj = 10, 20
δ = 0.01
ϵ = 0.5
K = 500
7.2 Simulation Results
In order to validate the efficiency of the suggested method based on the reinforcement
learning algorithm for the MTAO (Multi-Task Allocation Optimization) problem, a
series of experiments are conducted. The goal was to assess how well our learning-
based solution performed against three benchmark algorithms: greedy, random, and
Q-learning. While the greedy-based algorithm chooses the server with the highest pay-
out for each work, the random allocation method distributes each task to a server
at random. Execution of these four algorithms using varying numbers of servers and
tasks to generate comparison results, as depicted in Figure 1 and Figure 2. It is evi-
dent from the Figures that our Reinforcement Learning-based algorithm consistently
outperforms the other three algorithms by achieving higher rewards. In contrast,
the random strategy exhibits significant fluctuations due to the inherent random-
ness involved in each selection. These findings provide strong evidence supporting the
superior performance of the suggested algorithm in tackling the MTAO problem.
On the other hand, the greedy and learning algorithms exhibit smoother perfor-
mance. It might seem intuitive that having more servers would lead to higher total
rewards while increasing the number of tasks would enhance overall revenue. However,
the experimental results do not align with this expectation. There are at least three
reasons for this discrepancy.
Firstly, the allocation decisions are constrained by A1-A4, causing decision-making
to be dynamic when the number of servers or task varies. As a result, the impact on
rewards does not accumulate linearly.
Secondly, although more tasks can potentially yield higher rewards, they also incur
additional costs in terms of computation and communication. These costs offset the
revenue gains.
Thirdly, the heterogeneous nature of servers and tasks, characterized by varying
parameters, exacerbates the outcomes influenced by the first two reasons.
In summary, the results challenge the common notion that increasing the number of
servers or tasks directly translates to higher rewards or revenue. The intricate interplay
17
of constraints, costs, and heterogeneity within the system necessitates a more nuanced
understanding of the dynamics involved
Fig. 1: Increase in rewards with the increase in MEC servers
Fig. 2: Increase in rewards with the increase in offloading task
Subsequently, offloading tasks’ effects on unit costs and data quantities on total
rewards are investigated. By increasing the values of bj (unit prices) and Mj (data
sizes) by varying percentages from 10% to 100%, Figures 3 and 4 show the outcomes,
which clearly show an impact on overall rewards. Users contribute more to the sys-
tem when unit prices are higher, which raises the overall incentives. Similarly, larger
data sizes of tasks ki require more CPU cycles for processing, leading to higher total
rewards. These findings emphasize the significance of unit prices and data sizes in shap-
ing the rewards obtained in the system. Understanding the relationship between these
18
factors and the overall rewards can inform resource allocation and decision-making
processes for optimal outcomes.
Fig. 3: Increase in percentage of unit price with increase in rewards
Fig. 4: Increase in percentage of data size with increase in rewards
In the context of the experiment, the end-to-end delay in the Deep Deterministic
Policy Gradient (DDPG) algorithm is investigated and compared to the Q-learning
algorithm. The study involved conducting multiple episodes, with the number of
episodes at 500. Findings revealed that the DDPG algorithm exhibited significantly
lower end-to-end delay compared to the learning algorithm.
The observed reduction in end-to-end delay can be attributed to the inherent advan-
tages of the DDPG algorithm, which leverages continuous action spaces and utilizes
19
an actor-critic architecture. This enables the agent to make more precise and efficient
decisions in allocating tasks to servers within the system. Consequently, the DDPG
algorithm demonstrates superior performance in minimizing end-to-end delay, leading
to improved overall system efficiency.
These results depicted in Figure 5 provide scientific evidence of the effectiveness of the
DDPG algorithm in addressing the end-to-end delay challenge and highlight its poten-
tial for enhancing the performance of learning-based algorithms in similar scenarios.
Fig. 5: End-to-End delay comparison
The learning algorithm’s performance in terms of convergence is a key focus of
our analysis, particularly in the context of DDPG, which is influenced by two crucial
variables: α (learning rate) and γ (discount factor). Examining Figure 6, it is evident
Fig. 6: The Learning rate α decreased by a factor of 0.01
20
that a smaller α value results in decisions being predominantly influenced by past
experiences, limiting the exploration of alternative choices. Although this may yield
initial high payoffs, it hampers the effectiveness of convergence. On the other hand,
as depicted in Figure 7, a larger γ value leads to improved convergence. This can be
attributed to the fact that α considers the impact of future rewards on present choices.
Consequently, increasing γ places greater emphasis on rewards, facilitating more effi-
cient learning of optimal combinations and accelerating the convergence process. These
findings underscore the importance of carefully tuning the parameters α and γ in
DDPG to achieve desired convergence rates, as it enables enhanced decision-making
and faster convergence towards optimal solutions.
Fig. 7: The Discount factor γ increased by a factor of 0.5
8 Conclusion
The incorporation of blockchain technology into Mobile Edge Computing (MEC)
systems has demonstrated tremendous potential in tackling fundamental difficulties
in resource sharing and optimization, especially for high-end applications such as
AR, VR, Robotic arm surgery, etc. The blockchain-based MEC system introduced in
this paper presents a task distribution mechanism that makes it possible to allocate
tasks across the network effectively and efficiently. This system is built to increase
the system’s overall efficiency and optimize resource usage. This system uses the
Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG) algorithm, a reinforcement learning-
based strategy that enables effective task allocation decision-making. The DDPG
algorithm is created to develop the best policy for task distribution while taking into
account a number of variables, including network circumstances, task needs, and
resource availability. As a result, the system is able to make judgments that maximize
resource usage and cut down on task completion time. Extensive experiments have
been used to validate the proposed system’s and algorithms’ efficacy and efficiency.
21
Their potential to improve resource usage and optimize the assignment of tasks in
MEC situations is supported by the outcomes. This optimizes the efficiency of the
MEC system overall as well as the performance of specific jobs. Additionally, the task
allocation procedure is transparent and secure because of the usage of blockchain
technology. This may boost user and provider confidence and encourage wider accep-
tance and use of MEC systems.
Acknowledgments.
The author would like to express sincere gratitude to Dr. Sak-
shi Kaushal and Ms. Amita Chauhan for their support and valuable suggestions that
helped to improve and evaluate this paper.
Declarations
• Conflict of interest The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.
• Availability of data and materials The data and code generated in this study
are available upon request and are subject to access on a permission basis. For
inquiries regarding data access, please contact shreydhiman99@gmail.com with
the specific details of your request. We will endeavor to accommodate reasonable
requests for access to the data in a manner that aligns with ethical and privacy
considerations.
References
[1]
Yueyue Dai et al. “Artificial intelligence empowered edge computing and caching
for internet of vehicles”. In: IEEE Wireless Communications 26.3 (2019), pp. 12–
18.
[2]
Shrey Dhiman et al. “Computation Offloading in Mobile Edge Computing for
Next Generation Networks: A deep reinforcement learning approach”. In: 2023
International Conference for Advancement in Technology (ICONAT). IEEE.
2023, pp. 1–8.
[3]
Hoang T Dinh et al. “A survey of mobile cloud computing: architecture, appli-
cations, and approaches”. In: Wireless communications and mobile computing
13.18 (2013), pp. 1587–1611.
[4]
Weiwei Fang et al. “OKRA: optimal task and resource allocation for energy min-
imization in mobile edge computing systems”. In: Wireless Networks 25 (2019),
pp. 2851–2867.
[5]
Jie Feng et al. “Cooperative computation offloading and resource allocation
for blockchain-enabled mobile-edge computing: A deep reinforcement learning
approach”. In: IEEE Internet of Things Journal 7.7 (2019), pp. 6214–6228.
[6]
Zhuoer Hu et al. “Joint optimization for mobile edge computing-enabled
blockchain systems: A deep reinforcement learning approach”. In: Sensors 22.9
(2022), p. 3217.
22
[7]
Srinivas Jangirala, Ashok Kumar Das, and Athanasios V Vasilakos. “Design-
ing secure lightweight blockchain-enabled RFID-based authentication protocol
for supply chains in 5G mobile edge computing environment”. In: IEEE
Transactions on Industrial Informatics 16.11 (2019), pp. 7081–7093.
[8]
Yang Jian et al. “A Mobile Edge Computing Enabled Spectrum Blockchain
for the Internet of Spectrum Devices”. In: 12th EAI International Conference
on Mobile Multimedia Communications, Mobimedia 2019, 29th-30th Jun 2019,
Weihai, China. 2019.
[9]
Kai Jiang et al. “A q-learning based method for energy-efficient computation
offloading in mobile edge computing”. In: 2020 29th International Conference
on Computer Communications and Networks (ICCCN). IEEE. 2020, pp. 1–7.
[10]
C¸etin Kaya Ko¸c et al. “Rivest-shamir-adleman algorithm”. In: Partially Homo-
morphic Encryption (2021), pp. 37–41.
[11]
Dohyun Kwon et al. “Multiagent DDPG-based deep learning for smart ocean
federated learning IoT networks”. In: IEEE Internet of Things Journal 7.10
(2020), pp. 9895–9903.
[12]
Xunqiang Lan et al. “Blockchain-secured data collection for uav-assisted iot: A
ddpg approach”. In: 2021 IEEE Global Communications Conference (GLOBE-
COM). IEEE. 2021, pp. 1–6.
[13]
Shuyun Luo et al. “Deep Learning and Blockchain with Edge Computing
for 5G-Enabled Drone Identification and Flight Mode Detection”. In: IEEE
NETWORK 35.1 (2021), pp. 124–129.
[14]
Dinh C Nguyen et al. “Federated learning meets blockchain in edge computing:
Opportunities and challenges”. In: IEEE Internet of Things Journal 8.16 (2021),
pp. 12806–12825.
[15]
Dinh C Nguyen et al. “Intelligent blockchain-based edge computing via deep
reinforcement learning: Solutions and challenges”. In: IEEE Network 36.6
(2022), pp. 12–19.
[16]
Dinh C Nguyen et al. “Latency optimization for blockchain-empowered federated
learning in multi-server edge computing”. In: IEEE Journal on Selected Areas
in Communications 40.12 (2022), pp. 3373–3390.
[17]
Brendan O’Donoghue et al. “The uncertainty bellman equation and explo-
ration”. In: International Conference on Machine Learning. 2018, pp. 3836–
3845.
[18]
Jorge Pe˜na Queralta and Tomi Westerlund. “Blockchain for mobile edge comput-
ing: Consensus mechanisms and scalability”. In: Mobile edge computing (2021),
pp. 333–357.
[19]
MD Abdur Rahman et al. “Blockchain-based mobile edge computing framework
for secure therapy applications”. In: IEEE access 6 (2018), pp. 72469–72478.
[20]
Nicholas Stifter, Aljosha Judmayer, and Edgar Weippl. “Revisiting practical
byzantine fault tolerance through blockchain technologies”. In: Security and
Quality in Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering: With Forewords by Robert M.
Lee and Tom Gilb (2019), pp. 471–495.
23
[21]
Tuyen X Tran and Dario Pompili. “Joint task offloading and resource allocation
for multi-server mobile-edge computing networks”. In: IEEE Transactions on
Vehicular Technology 68.1 (2018), pp. 856–868.
[22]
Yitong Wang and Jun Zhao. “Mobile edge computing, metaverse, 6G wireless
communications, artificial intelligence, and blockchain: Survey and their con-
vergence”. In: 2022 IEEE 8th World Forum on Internet of Things (WF-IoT).
IEEE. 2022, pp. 1–8.
[23]
Yitong Wang and Jun Zhao. “Mobile edge computing, metaverse, 6G wireless
communications, artificial intelligence, and blockchain: Survey and their con-
vergence”. In: 2022 IEEE 8th World Forum on Internet of Things (WF-IoT).
IEEE. 2022, pp. 1–8.
[24]
Zhilin Wang et al. “Incentive mechanism design for joint resource allocation in
blockchain-based federated learning”. In: IEEE Transactions on Parallel and
Distributed Systems 34.5 (2023), pp. 1536–1547.
[25]
Yuan Wu et al. “Optimal computational power allocation in multi-access mobile
edge computing for blockchain”. In: Sensors 18.10 (2018), p. 3472.
[26]
Zehui Xiong et al. “When mobile blockchain meets edge computing”. In: IEEE
Communications Magazine 56.8 (2018), pp. 33–39.
[27]
Jinliang Xu et al. “A blockchain-enabled trustless crowd-intelligence ecosystem
on mobile edge computing”. In: IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics
15.6 (2019), pp. 3538–3547.
[28]
Xiaolong Xu et al. “Concurrent practical byzantine fault tolerance for integration
of blockchain and supply chain”. In: ACM Transactions on Internet Technology
(TOIT) 21.1 (2021), pp. 1–17.
[29]
Xinzhe Zheng et al. “Resource allocation on blockchain enabled mobile edge
computing system”. In: Electronics 11.12 (2022), p. 1869.
24

